Move scheduler basics documentation to Airflow docs (#10531)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/scheduler.rst

Scheduler
==========

The scheduler is the core component in Airflow that is responsible for monitoring all tasks and DAGs and triggers the task instances once their dependencies are complete. And for this reason, it is imperative to learn about the working of the scheduler.

Scheduling in airflow involves the 3 following components.

1. ``DAGFileProcessor`` - Responsible for parsing the DAG definition in a file and creating the necessary DAG runs and TaskInstances

2. ``DAGFileProcessorManager`` - Responsible for listing the files in the DagBag and creating new DAGFileProcessors when required

> 3. ``SchedulerJob`` - Responsible for sending the TaskInstances to the executor

Reviewer: In the Scheduler process, we also have an executor.

Author: AFAIK, the scheduerJob is responsible for sending TI from one state to another and run them. Would `Responsible for transitioning the task instances from one state to another and executing them via a configured executor` be a better explanation here? Please correct me if I'm wrong.

Author: @mik-laj Updated the descriptions. Please take a look.

Logic behind scheduling is as follows:

1. Airflow kicks off DAGFileProcessorManager along with the SchedulerJob. The DAGFileProcessorManager enumerates all the files in the DAG directory.

> 2. The DAGFileProcessorManager spawns child processes known as DAGFileProcessor which is responsible for creating the necessary DAG Runs and TaskInstances. When it determines that task instances should run, it updates their state to ``SCHEDULED``. The number of DAGFileProcessor to spawn is configurable via ``num_runs`` in ``airflow.cfg``. TODO: Check if the configuration is correct

Reviewer: > The number of DAGFileProcessor to spawn is configurable via ``num_runs`` in ``airflow.cfg``. TODO: Check if the configuration is correct

That's not true. num_run specifies the number of scheduler loop runs.  The maximum number of DAGFileProcesses is determined by the max_threads options in the scheduler section.

Author: So num_runs is about how many iterations the scheduler go over the DagBag, after which the scheduler shut itself down gracefully?

> 3. If any of the DAGFileProcessor have finished, another process is spawned to work on the next file in the series.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If any of the DAGFileProcessor have finished, another process is created to work on the next file in the series.
```
Depending on the operating system, new processes can be spawn(MacOS) or fork(Linux).

To illustrate better,

.. image:: img/scheduler_flow.png

TODO: Do we add missing task instance states in the TaskInstance document

If the task instance has a state of NONE it will be set to SCHEDULED if the scheduler determines that it needs to run.
Tasks in the SCHEDULED state are sent to the executor, at which point it is put into the QUEUED state until it actually runs. TODO: Add links to TaskInstance in the documentation. The reason that the task instances are created in the ``SCHEDULED`` state, but then are set to the ``QUEUED`` state once it is sent to the executor, is to ensure that a task instance isn't repeatedly send to the executor if the executor is slow and a DAG definition file is processed multiple times before the executor has a chance to run the task. When the DAGFileProcessor examines a DAG for potential tasks to put into the ``SCHEDULED`` state, it skips those task instances in the ``QUEUED`` state.

> Since the scheduler can run indefinitely, it's necessary to periodically refresh the list of files in the DAG definition directory. The refresh interval is controlled with the ``dag_dir_list_interval`` configuration parameter. In cases where there are only a small number of DAG definition files, the loop could potentially process the DAG definition files many times a minute. To control the rate of DAG file processing, the ``min_file_process_interval`` can be set to a higher value. This parameter ensures that a DAG definition file is not processed more often than once every ``min_file_process_interval`` seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the scheduler can run indefinitely, it's necessary to periodically refresh the list of files in the DAG definition directory. The refresh interval is controlled with the ``dag_dir_list_interval`` option in ``[scheduler]`` section. In cases where there are only a small number of DAG definition files, the loop could potentially process the DAG definition files many times a minute. To control the rate of DAG file processing, the ``min_file_process_interval`` option in ``[scheduler]`` section can be set to a higher value. This parameter ensures that a DAG definition file is not processed more often than once every ``min_file_process_interval`` seconds.
```
